h1. Rails Locale Data Repository

Central point to collect locale data for use in Ruby on Rails.

To contribute just send us a pull request, patch or plain text file. 

Please include a comment with the language/locale name and your name and email address (or other contact information like your github profile) to the locale file so people can come contact you and ask questions etc.

Also, please pay attention to save your files as UTF-8.

h2. Rails translations

To begin with, have a look in rails/locale/en.yml, which can be used as the base of your translation.

This file is a compound of all translation files in the Rails 2 and 3 packages. Note that we use <code>&errors_messages</code> and <code><<: *errors_messages</code> to anchor and merge a part of translation data.

h2. Testing your translation file

Use structure.rb, a simple tool for testing the integrity of your key structure.

Make sure you have the Ruby I18n gem installed. If you haven't already you can try: 

<pre>
sudo gem install i18n
</pre>

Then, standing in the root directory of this repository, do:

<pre>
ruby rails/test/structure.rb [your-local]
</pre>

Assuming that there is a file rails/locale/[your-locale].yml you will get a list of missing keys in your locale data.

If you want to test all locale files, run:

<pre>
rake
</pre>

to invoke <code>test</code> task.

The <code>test</code> task will print many missing keys because few translation files are ready for Rails 3.

We are working to address this situation.


h2. Rails I18n Textmate bundle

h3. The bundle adds the following commands: 

h4. Extract Translation (cmd-shift-e):
* prompts you for a dot-separated key
* adds the translation (mapping the dot-separated key to nested yaml keys)
* replaces the selected string in your source-code with the dot-separated key wrapped into a call to t(your.key), if interpolations are detected within translation, the replacement text will prompt for them.

h4. Look up Translation (cmd-shift-i): 
* Looks up the currently selected key if text is selected
* If nothing is selected, it will look up all the keys in the currently selected file.

h3. The bundle adds the following tab triggers:

h4. tr: 
* Inserts I18n.translate("") or translate("") based on your context

h4. The following properties are editable:
* default locale
* translation file path
* whether extract inserts the long syntax (I18n.translate) or short syntax (I18n.t)
* where and if translation changes are logged

Note that Textmate, while active, won't reload the translations.yml for you if it's already open. When you give the focus to another application and then go back to Textmate (e.g. with cmd-tab, cmd-tab) it will reload the file. I found it useful to have translations.yml open on a second monitor while extracting translations from my application.

I still have to figure out how to automatically select the next string after this command has run. It works well to just use Textmate's "Find Next" though:

# hit cmd-f and give it <code>("|').*(\1)</code> as a search expression, tell it to use this as a "Regular expression"
# hit return and it will select the next string
# use shift-cmd-e to extract that string
# hit cmd-g to select the next string